[Music]
the reason we only do one set is because
the stimulus you get with x3 is far more
powerful than what you would get with
regular weight training and in nature
stimulus and adaptive responses of the
body it's usually one stimulus so of
course some of you that know my
background bone-density medical devices
I created a medical device called osteo
strong and that's all over the world now
and helping hundreds of thousands of
people build bone density interesting
thing about bone is one loading cycle
one episode of force going through the
radius and the ulna will trigger on
osteogenic response and we can see this
through blood analysis so within a few
minutes after an osteogenic experience
the biochemistry changes and bone is
being built so this is how all
adaptations happen when you build a
callus on your hand when you get a
suntan
nobody says how many sets did you do in
the Sun today to get your suntan that's
nonsense
no one would ask that question because
we don't do sets so why do we do sets
with weightlifting we do sets because
the stimulus is garbage it is very weak
we hardly get anything out of it so you
have to do it over and over again to get
everything and also you're compounding
joint damage when you do that so why why
is x3 not going to trigger any damage
but also gonna give a superior muscular
stimulus and response in that one
experience well the obvious principle is
variable resistance so the 16 studies
that confirm that variable resistance
will grow muscle faster
it also irritates joints less if at all
so here are the principles the variable
resistance so when I'm doing a chest
press 540 pounds here 300 pounds here
and a hundred pounds here so a very
steep variance curve
now that is in accordance to what my
biomechanics are so I have much more
capacity for creating load here than I
do here and incredibly so more than when
I'm here so when I go through that
experience
I'm fatiguing the muscle in accordance
with what the capacity is I'm also
keeping constant tension so never
letting slack come in the band in fact
when somebody ever says like oh the band
keeps slipping as I'm doing these
exercises well the band is slipping
because you're letting the tension off
and you're using the device incorrectly
so you got to keep constant tension now
bodybuilders gonna be using constant
tension for a long time just to make
sure the the fatigue is profound and in
the muscle now of course it's more
profound with variable resistance but we
also apply that constant tension
principle so you never let off now from
a central nervous system standpoint when
people lift and they lock out at the top
that's great for a weightlifting
competition because that's how they
determine if you've completed the lift
but in reality you're turning the muscle
on you're turning the muscle off you're
turning the muscle on you're turning the
muscle off it's not it's a confusing
stimulus so no growth happens so when
you're using x3 or you're trying to grow
don't do that constant tension the other
thing we do in the protocol is
diminishing range so the first
repetitions go here not to lockout but
to about right here just shorter lockout
and their full range repetitions until I
can't get to that powerful position of
the strongest range then my range
shortens and I go half repetitions and
then I can't do that anymore and then my
last few repetitions might only be an
inch or two and that provides a complete
stimulus of the muscle a complete
evacuation of ATP gleich
creatine phosphate a complete fatigue of
myofibril structure within the cell
so you're stimulating both types of
growth to the maximum degree in every
experience now when the set is over yes
you are exhausted you'll also notice
that as you grow much larger muscle
which happens very quickly with x3 the
larger the muscles become the more
exhausted
you'll be because the larger muscle has
a greater blood demand with one set we
accomplish more than multiple sets with
regular weight training that's why we do
one set now when you're done with your
set we get the question very frequently
how long do you rest for it's really
just until you catch your breath now
that might be a little longer than what
you're used to because this is an
incredibly powerful stimulus but once
you catch your breath in your and your
breathing rate goes back to normal which
says your heart rate is gone back to
normal go ahead and do your next set